### Important Note:

I am using Google Gemini as a technical directory to help my find resources I need to succeed in this project. I will not allow it to replace my thinking and all decisions and logic will remain my own.

What I will be using AI for:
* Directing me to important documentation as a more sophisticated Google search
* Translate hard to read errors/logs and explain what is going on so I can better understand how the program works and work through similar errors in the future
  * Note: I will initially try to read through errors on my own to work on my troubleshooting and logic skills. If I am spending too much time on it, I will ask AI for a nudge in the right direction.
* Ask for examples of and teach me how to use something (e.g., a method or class) I am unfamiliar with
* Review code I have written myself to ensure my logic is correct

What I will not be using AI for:
* Generating code that I will use for my project (essentially copy and pasting)
  * I will ensure I understand what I am writing and be able to follow my code line by line on my own
* Replacing my thinking
* Designing the project for me
  * By this I mean I will not use AI to design my project's structure because I believe it will limit my options. It also won't know my file structure entirely, and it won't know my scope.
* Accept answers generated by AI as absolute
  * I will double-check it with other sources I find online to ensure information is up-to-date and correct

### February 2026

<details>
<summary>6 February 2026</summary>

Starting the project today. I have a generalized idea of what I am doing based off a map I wrote out. I am currently trying to figure out all the resource I need for this project. I am currently figuring out how Maven works and how to import SQLite and Spring Boot. This will likely take a while.

</details>

<details>
<summary>7 February 2026</summary>

I added Spring Boot to pom.xml usin the Spring initializr as a reference. I then added Spring Boot JDBC and SQLite according to instructions I found on sqlitetutorial.net. I also found out that I need to use Hibernate so that Spring Boot knows how to talk with SQLite. I used [this website](https://www.baeldung.com/spring-boot-sqlite) as my setup reference.

I also had some trouble with the IDE's build system. It thought I was using Gradle even though I am using Maven. I had to unlink the project in the Gradle tab.

Now that I am done with the pom.xml stuff, I am completely lost. I know what I want to do but have no clue where to start. Okay, instead of looking at the bigger picture, I am going to focus what's in front of me with what I have so far. I have Spring Boot and other dependencies initialized. I can make a standard REST API for that. This will later help my bookmarks and history tracking (which will be good for the back and forward buttons). I am currently looking at the Spring Boot documentation to learn how to get started. I will follow the documentation to help me construct basic REST API calls and tests.

Upon looking at the documentation, I am going to use some files generated from the [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/) to help get me started. 

I tried running Spring Boot by navigating to the wyvern-api folder and running `mvn spring-boot:run` but received this error:

```
Failed to configure a DataSource: 'url' attribute is not specified and no embedded datasource could be configured.
```

Upon researching, I found that Spring Boot requires a configuration if I include database libraries. This meant I had to go into application.properties and configure it so it can recognize SQLite. Here are some notes I gathered:

```properties
### Location of the database
# The adress of the data so Spring Boot knows
spring.datasource.url=jdbc:sqlite:wyvern.db
# The translator that points org.sqlite.JDBC to the xerial library
spring.datasource.driver-class-name=org.sqlite.JDBC

### Hibernate settings
# DDL means Data Definition Language. This is for checking whether tables exist or not and will create new ones if not
spring.jpa.hibernate.ddl-auto=update
# Verbose logging
spring.jpa.show-sql=true

### Dialect
spring.jpa.properties.hibernate.dialect=org.hibernate.community.dialect.SQLiteDialect
```

After fixing this, I got it to work! I was able to test localhost:8080/hello and it worked as intended. I was even able to use query parameters. I will continue making some basic REST API functions.
</details>
